##Pacific NW Region Programming Contest

###Coding Narrative

####Background
I'd always been interested in doing a coding competition, but an opportune chance to do one never came out. Roughly three weeks before the ACM PNW ICPC 2014, one of our chapters members posted an email to our mailing list about getting a team together for the competition. This being my last year in college and thus PSU's ACM chapter, I decided to do it despite a heavy workload. For two weeks, once every week our team of three (including myself) got together for 2-3 hours and ran through former programming contests. Obviously given that only one of us had any previous experience (in China), and the fact that we had no coach, we had no plans to top the UC schools, but at least we could do great for our PNW site.

####The Competition
This was the first year that Python was being used, and as such there was a fair amount of issues across teams with Python based solution submissions. In particular, there was some strange Failed - Security Exception shenanigans in both our and other team submissions despite no one using crazy system calls. Even though our team through problem A fairly quickly in about an hour, we couldn't figure out what was causing our solution to fail. Easily the biggest problem for myself and the other team was that we were told our solution failed, but not the input that failed it. Eventually we realized our solution for A did not include checking to see if the first character was a '-', however it still failed. I focused on going through a printout of our code and trying to figure out where we went wrong while the other two focused on problem L. After reading through A's prompt several dozen times I realized that the digits had to be unique (i.e. there can't be two 2's), and that fixed the solution. However, the other two were still having issues, our sample input looked like the sample output (same as for A), and our equations checked out, so we tried coding the solution in C instead. However, we still got a failing solution. Since we had already put a pair amount of effort into L, we continued since we had less than an hour left. Unfortunately, we couldn't figure out the root of the issue. After talking with another team after, we found our code was exactly the same with the exception of them multiplying by 100 and then rounding and then dividing by 100; our issue was a trivial rounding issue. Had we gotten the problem we could have been bumped up a dozen positions or so.

####Thoughts
Overall, it was an interesting experience to work with a team through coding and debugging. The two most frustrating issues were both the issues throughout with the Python solution checking script the judges used giving false flagging and the fact that we had no clue what input was causing the issue and having to comb through the prompt and code trying to figure out what input when given would result in the wrong output. In most coding experience I've dealt with, if you come across a user issue, you have better means of replicating the issue because you know what the input is due to stack traces or logging. However, we placed in the top 40% in the Pacific NW which isn't too bad given what we were going in with.